the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU hard
the
the in
the norm
are
the in the last two lectures
and we saw how periodic not periodic signals could be represented as linear
combinations a complex exponentials
and this led to the Fourier series representation
in the periodic case and it led to the Fourier transform
representation in the a periodic case and and then in fact
what we did was to incorporate the 4e a series
within the framework of the Fourier transform what I'd like to do in today's
lecture is
look at the 4-yard transform more closely
in particular with regard to so this property's
so let me begin by reminding you
love the analysis and synthesis equations for the four th
transform and as I summarize them here
the synthesis equation being a
an equation that tells us how to build the
time function outta in essence a linear combination
a complex exponentials and the analysis equation
telling us how to get the amplitudes love those complex exponentials
from the Associated time function
so essentially in the decomposition
affect safety as a linear combination of complex exponentials
the complex amplitudes if those are in effect
the 48 transform scaled by
the differential and scaled by one over two-part
now as
I indicated last time the 48 transform
is a complex function of frequency in
and in particular the complex function of frequency
has an important and very useful cemetery property
the symmetry love the Fourier transform
when X if T is real is
what is referred to as conjugate symmetric in other words if we take the
complex
function after Omega and and its complex conjugate
that's equivalent to replacing Omega
by minus Omega and a consequence if that
if we think interns love the real party the Fourier transform
the real part is and even function of frequency
and the magnet to is an even function of frequency
whereas the imaginary part is an
odd function of frequency and the phase angle
is an odd function of frequency so
we have this symmetry relationship that for except the real
if we think I've either the real part or the magnitude of the Fourier transform
its even symmetric and the imaginary part
or the phase angle either one it is
fought symmetric in other words if we flip it we multiply by a minus sign
let's didn't look at an example
in the context love an example that we worked last time
for the Fourier transform we took
the case both a real exponential
love the form eat to the -80 times this step
and the 48 transform as
we found was other algebraic form one over a plus J Omega
and incidently the 48 transform into grow only converged
for a greater than 0 in other words
for this exponential became and I illustrated
the magnitude and angle and what we see is that
you the minus 8c is a real
time function therefore its magnitude
should be an even function of frequency and indeed it is
and its phase angle shown below
is and odd function of frequency
so in fact in although
I stressed last time that
the complex exponentials required to build the time function
require exponentials both positive and negative frequencies
for except the real what we see is that
because if the symmetry properties either for the real and imaginary or
magnitude and angle
we can specify a before you transform for let's say only positive frequencies
and asymmetry then implies are tells us
what the Fourier transform then will be for the negative frequencies
okay now this same example the cause
the decaying exponential demonstrates
another important and often useful
property the Fourier transform
specifically let's rewrite algebraically this example
as I indicate here so we have
again the exponential was 48 transformers one over a plus J Omega
and if I A just simply divide numerator and denominator by a
I can rewrite it in the form shown here
and what we notice is dead in the time function
we have a term of the form eight times TV
and in the frequency function we have a term for the form Omega
divided by a or
equivalent Lee we can't think all the
time function which I show here
and as the pram enter a gets smaller
the exponential gets spread out in time
whereas s04e08 transform
or the magnitude of its Fourier transform has the inverse property
that as a get smaller in fact
this scales down in frequency
well this is a general property love
the Fourier transform namely the fact
that a a linear scaling a time
generates the infers linear scaling a frequency
and the general statement love this time frequency scaling is what
I show at the top above the transparency namely the equation
that if we scale the time function in time
then we apply and infers scaling a frequency
now her this in fact is probably a result
that you're already possibly familiar with in
somewhat of a different context essentially you can think of this
as an example poor generalization rather
up the notion that if let's say I A
had a signal that was recorded on a tape player
and if I play the tape back and let's say twice the speed which means that I'm
compressing the time axis
linearly by a factor of two then in fact what happens is that
the frequencies that we observe get pushed up by a factor of two
and effect let me illustrate that
I have here a glockenspiel
and anyone who loves a parade certainly knows what I each
blockage feel as and
this particular glockenspiel has
3 eighties separated each by an active there's a middle way
a high a us and a low a
and what I've done is to record
the middle a on a tape
at seven and a half inches per second and
what I'd like to demonstrate is that as
we play that back either a cloister half-speed
the effective note gets moved down or up by a doctor
so let me first play the note at
the speed at which was recorded and so what we'll hear
is the middle a as i've recorded it and let me just start
the tape player
okay let me stop it and hopefully what you heard is the
same note from the tape recorder as
the note that I played on the glockenspiel okay well now
a rewind the tape and we go back to the beginning
love that portion and
now if I change the tapes the to
half the speed so from seven and a half inches per second
a change the tape speed 233 quarter
inches per second and now
when I play the tape back because effect because
love the inverse relationship between time and frequency scaling we're now
scaling in time by stretching out we would expect the frequencies to be
lowered
by a factor of two we should now expect the
taped no to be an octave lower
matching the slower a so let's just play that okay let me stop it
and again will rewind the tape
go back to
the beginning and now will play this at
twice the speed so I change from three and three-quarters
to 15 inches per second and now and I play it we would expect that
to match the upper no and let's just do that Ste
us
us okay well
although thats a result that intuitively probably
makes considerable sense in fact what that is
is an illustration love the inverse relationship between
time scaling frequency scaling and also by the way it was finally my opportunity
to play the glockenspiel on television okayed now
in in addition their is another
very important relationship between the time and frequency domains
namely what is referred to as a
duality relationship and
the duality relationship between time and frequency
falls out more less directly from
the equations the analysis and synthesis equations in particular if we look at
the
synthesis equation which I repeat here
and the analysis equation which I repeat below it
what we observe is dead in fact
these equations are basically identical
except for the fact that in the top
integral we have things as a function of Omega in the bottom integral as a
function of T
and there's a factor of 10 ver tu Pai and by the way a minus sign
well you can look at the algebra
more carefully at your leisure but especially with this says
is that if excessive Omega is
the Fourier transform over type function exit see
then in fact except Amy
is very much like the Fourier transform affective Omega
in fact it's the Fourier transform attacks have minus Omega
to account for this minus sign and by the way there's just an additional
factor
one over 25 so the duality relationship which
follows from these two equations in fact
says that if x50
an ex vivo maker are a4e a transformed pair
if little accent capital XR Fourier transform pair
then capital lacks in fact has a $4 EA transform
which is proportional a little lax turned around well
this to outdo ality in the continuous time Fourier transform
is very important it's very useful it by the way is not
duality that surface in a forty a series because as you recall the 48 series
begins with a continuous-time function
and in the frequency domain generates a sequence
which with just naturally have the proper have
problems associated with it if we attempted to
interpreted to ality and we'll see also:
that in a discrete-time case one of the important differences between
continuous-time and discrete-time Fourier transforms
is the fact that in continuous-time we have to our the
in discrete-time for then the discrete-time Fourier transform we don't
well
let's indicate illustrate this with an example
in here are in fact two examples
a Fourier transform pairs taken from examples in the text
to the top one being example
four-point 11 from the tax and it's a time for action
which is a sin 0 X over X type a function
and its Fourier transform
corresponds to a
rectangular shape in the frequency domain there's also
another example in the text the example the preseason this one
which is example four-point 10 and an example four point 10
we begin with a rectangle
and its Fourier transform is love the form
all a sin x over X function
so in fact if we look at these to
examples together what we see is
the duality very evident in other words
if we take this time function and
instead think i've a frequency function that has the same form
then we simply interchange the rolls a time-frequency
in the other domains so the fact that these to correspond
means that these two cars find
course and in this particular example
we because it the fact that we picked a symmetric function even function
in fact the additional twist love the time axis being reversed didn't show up
in her in duality with this example
now one thing he says of course is that essentially
anytime you've calculated
the 48 transform a one-time function
then you actually calculate the Fourier transform
to type functions another one being
the dual example to the one that you just calculated
now also somewhat related to do our the
is what is referred to as parce balls
relation for the continuous-time Fourier transform
and essentially what parts are false relationship says
is that as kind of a a summary other
it says dead the energy
in a time function and the energy
in its Fourier transform are proportional the proportionality factor
being a factor of two pi
it well that summarized here what's meant by the energy
is course the ago the magnitude squared effect City
and the statement apart the balls relation and is dead
that in a brawl the energy and accept T
is proportional to this integral which is the energy
indexable Megan now
although we've incorporated the 4e a series
within a framework for the Fourier transform parcels relation
needs to be modified slightly for
for a series because the fact that periodic signal
has an infinite amount of energy and its and essentially
that former parcels relationship for the periodic case would say
infinity equals infinity which isn't too useful
however can be modified so that part's a false relationship for the periodic case
says essentially that the energy E
in one period other periodic time function
in is proportional with this is the proportionality factor
proportional to the sum %uh the magnitude squared
up the coefficients in other words the energy in one period
is proportional to the energy in the sequence
that represents the four EA series coefficients
now okay there are lots of other properties
and there developed in the text in the study guide
a number a properties that we want to make particular you so
during this lecture and in later lectures
are ones that I summarize here and
I won't demonstrate the proves but
a principally focus on some with the interpretation is the lecture goes on
well in the first property that I have listed here's what's referred to as the
time shifting property
and the time shifting property says if I have a time function
with a Fourier transform mexico maker
if I shift that time function in time
dan that corresponds to multiplying
the 48 transformed by this factor
now as you examine this factor what you can see is that
this factor has magnitude unity
and it has a phase which is linear with frequency
and is slow %uh minus 20
so a statement to remember that will come up
many times throughout the cores
is that a timeshare after a displacement in time
corresponds to linear phase
or change in linear phase earlier change in phase and frequency
another property in and in fact a pair of properties
that will make reference to as we turn our attention toward the end of this
lecture to
solving differential equations using the Fourier transform
is hit was referred to as the differentiation property
and its companion which is the integration property
the differentiation property says again if we have
a time function whose with Fourier transform mexico maker
the Fourier transform up the time derivative that
is in corresponds to multiplying the Fourier transform
by a linear function of frequency so
here it's a linear able to change dead
that corresponds to differentiation
now at first glance what you might think is that
the integration property is just the reverse if that if
for the differentiation property you multiply by J Omega then
for integration you must abide by jail maker and thats almost correct
except not quite and the reason for the not quite
is that recall that if you differentiate
what happens of course is that you lose a constant
and if we have a time function thats some fun and energy signal plus a
constant
differentiating will destroy the constant
and integration the immigration property in essence tries to bring that back
so the integration property which is the inverse
of the differentiation property says that we divide
the transformed by J Omega and then
if in fact their was a constant added to accept T
we have to account for that by inserting an impulse
into the Fourier transform and
the file property that I want to draw your attention to
on this you graph is the linearity property
which is very straight forward to demonstrate from
the analysis and synthesis equations which simply said is
if X 100 maker is the Fourier transform X 1ft
and x2 Omega is the Fourier transform X 2ft
then the Fourier transform a linear combination is
a linear combination love the Fourier transforms
now let me emphasize also that these properties for the most part
apply both 240 a series and Fourier transforms
because in fact and what we've done is to incorporate
the forty a series within the
framework of the Fourier transform
okay now will be using a number of these properties shortly when we turn our
attention to
near-constant coefficient differential equations however before we do that I'd
like to
focus on two additional
major properties and
these are what are referred to as the convolution property and the modulation
property
and in fact the convolution property as I'm about
to introduces forms the
mathematical and conceptual basis for
the whole notion of filtering which in fact will be
a topic by itself in a set of lectures and
and in fact is a chapter by itself in the textbook
similarly what i'll refer to as the modulation property
again well occupy its own set
have lectures as we go through this scores and in fact has its own
a chapter in the textbook
let me in just indicate what the convolution property is
and and what the convolution property
tells us is that
the 48 transform of the convolution
a two-time functions is the product
all therefore yea transforms
so it says for example dead
if I have a linear time-invariant system
and in I have an input exits the an impulse response HFT
and the output of course being the convolution
then in fact if I look at this in the frequency domain
the Fourier transform up the output
is the for EA transform the input
times the Fourier transform the impulse response
now you can demonstrate this property
algebraically by essentially taking the convolution integral
and applying to 48 transforming doing the appropriate
in a changing the order integration et cetera
but who what I'd like to draw your attention to is a
somewhat more intuitive interpretation of the property
and the intuitive interpretations stems from
the relationship between the Fourier transform at the impulse response
and what we refer to as the frequency response
now recall dead wanna have
the things that lettuce to use complex exponentials as building blocks
was the fact that there I can functions linear time-invariant systems in other
words
if we have linear time-invariant system
and I have an input which is a complex exponential
the output is a complex exponential the same frequency
multiplied by what we call the frequency response
and in fact the expression for the frequency response
is identical to the expression for the four EA transform the impulse response
in other words the frequency response is
the Fourier transform of the impulse response
now in that context how can we
interpret the convolution property well
remember what I said at the beginning the lecture 1 I've pointed
to the synthesis equation and I said in
in essence the synthesis equation tells us
how to decompose x50 as a linear combination a complex exponentials
what are the complex amplitudes are those complex exponentials
well interns love our notation year
the complex amplitude of those complex exponentials
is Xserve Omega or proportional taxable make in particular taxable make a deal
maker
and then a factor two-part well
as this signal goes through this linear time-invariant system
what happens to each of those exponentials is
it each one gets multiplied by the frequency response
at The Associated frequency
what comes out is the amplitude
all the complex exponentials that are used
to bill the output
so in fact the convolution property
simply is telling us
that interns have a decomposition the signal
enters a complex exponentials as we push that signal through linear
time-invariant system
were separately modifying with the frequency response were multiplying
by the frequency response the amplitudes
love the exponential comp phones used to build the input
and that song intern is
the decomposition of the output in terms of complex exponentials
now and I I understand that kinda going through that involves
a little bit of sorting out and I strongly encourage you
to try to understand and interpret the convolution property
in knows conceptual terms rather than simply by
applying the mathematics to the convolution integral and seeing that
terms match up on both sides
now as i indicated the convolution property
forms the basis for what's referred to as filtering
and this is a topic that will be treating a
considerable amount of detail and after
we've also gone through a discussion love the discrete-time Fourier transform
in the next several lectures however what I'd like to do is just
just indicate now a little bit love
the conceptual ideas involve
essentially conceptually what filtering as its
typically referred to corresponds to
is modifying separately
the individual frequency components in a signal
the convolution property told us that if we
look at the individual frequency comp points they get multiplied by the
frequency response and so what that says is that we can amplify or it anyway
any of those comp own it separately using a linear time-invariant system
for example what I've illustrated here is
the frequency response what is commonly referred to
as and ideal Lopez filter what an ideal 0 pass filter does
is to pass exactly
frequencies in one frequency range
and eliminate totally frequencies outside that range
another filter which is not so ideal might for example
attenuate sit com phone it's in this band but not
I rather attenuate conference in this band but not totally eliminate them
now interns a filtering we can think back
to the differentiation property and in fact interpreter
differentiation or differentiator as a filter
recall that the differentiation property said
that the Fourier transform all the differentiated signal
is the for a transformer the original signal multiplied by J Omega
so what that says then
is dead if we have a differentiator opened the frequency response to that
is J Omega in other words the Fourier transform of the output is Jay Omega
times the Fourier transform the input
and so the frequency response a differentiator
looks like this and turns its magnitude and what it does
of course is it amplifies high frequencies
and attenuates low frequencies
well let me just to kinda cement summer these ideas
illustrate them in a context 0
one kind of signal namely signal which in fact
is the spatial signal rather than a time signal
and this also gives me an opportunity to introduce you
to our colleague JBJ for EA's
so if we could look at our colleague mister four EA
who by the way is on
not only person who had tremendously brilliant insights
and his insights in fact have led to
the developments really for the foundation the developments that
is the basis for this course he was also a very interesting fascinating person
and there's a certain amount of historical discussion
about for EA and his background which you might enjoy reading in the text
in any case what you're looking at a course is a signal
and the signal is a spatial signal and
it has high frequencies and low frequencies high frequencies
corresponding to things that are varying rapidly
spatially and low frequencies barings
very slowly spatially it so
for example we could low-pass filter
this picture simply by asking
the video crew if they could slightly defocus
and what you see as the picture is the focus if you can hold it there
is dead we've lost edges which
is the rapid variation and what we've retained is the broader
slow variation and now let's take out
the d focusing low-pass filter and go back
to a focused image
okay now what
and we can also consider is what would happen if we look
at the differentiated image and their are several ways that we can think about
this
one is that a differentiator of course the output of a differentiator
is larger where the discontinuity
or where the variation is faster
and so we would expect the edges
to be enhanced if in fact we differentiated the image
or if we interpret differentiation in the context
love our filter then what we're saying
if hey what we're saying is that in effect
what's happening is that the differentiator is
accentuating the high frequencies
because if the frequency shape the differentiator now recall that this all
kinda fits together is a nice package
be expected to actively the differentiation will enhance ages
when we talked about square waves and we so I have a for a series built up a
square wave
we saw that it was the high frequencies
that were required in order to build up the sharp
edges and so either viewed as a filter or viewed intuitively
we would expect that the differentiated image would in fact
get would in fact it anyway the slowly varying background and amplify
the rapidly varying ages so let's look again at
our original image just to remind you love the fact that there are edges of
course and their
is more slowly varying backgrounds
and now let's look at the
result love passing that through
a differentiator and as i think is
very evident in that in the resulting image
clearly is the edges that a retained and
the slow back to slower background variations
are destroyed which is consistent with everything we've said
okay now i've emphasized the her will be returning
to a much broader discussion a filtering at
a later point in the cores right now like to comment on another
property which here is also as i indicated a topic I've
in its own right and which really is the dual
property to the convolution property and in fact could be argued directly from
duality
and that is what's referred to as the modulation property
now the convolution property told us that
if we convolved in the time domain we multiply in the frequency domain
and we know the time and frequency domains are interchangeable because it
to our the
so what that would suggest is dead
if we multiply in the time domain
that would correspond to convolution in the frequency domain
and in fact head that is exactly what the modulation property is
I have a summarized here that if we multiply
a time function by another time function then
in the frequency domain week involved
whereas the convolution property is just the duel at that
namely convolved being in the time domain corresponds to
multiplication in the frequency domain
the convolution property is the basis as i indicated for filtering
the modulation property as I've summarized it here
in fact is the entire basis
for amplitude modulation systems issues
almost universally in communications and wait
the modulation property is we'll see when we explored in more detail
tells us is that if we have a signal with a certain spectrum
and we multiply by a sinusoidal
signal whose for EA transformers said impulses
then in a frequency-domain week involved and that corresponds
to taking the original spectrum and translating it
shifting it in frequency up to
the frequency love the carrier namely
the sinusoidal signal and as I said will
come to that in much more detail in a number of lectures
okay now we've seen a number of properties
and I indicated sometime earlier when we talked about
and differential equations that in fact it's the properties are the 48 transform
that providers with a very useful
an important mechanism for solving linear constant coefficient differential
equations
and but I'd like to do now
is illustrate the procedure the basis for that
and I think what we'll do is illustrated simply in the context of several
examples
okay well in what i've indicated is
a system
with her a an impulse response HFT
or frequency response teachable nigga and of course we know that in the time
domain it's just right to convolution
in the frequency domain its described through multiplication
and I in essence
am assuming that we're talking about a linear time-invariant system
and we're also going to assume that it's characterized by a win here comes the
coefficient differential equation
where we're going to oppose the condition
that its causal linear and time-invariant
or equivalent Lee that the initial condition conditions
are consistent with initial rest
and it's because it the fact that we're assuming
that is a linear time-invariant system that
we can describe it in the frequency domain through the convolution property
and we can use the properties love the forty a transfer
so let's take as our example a first-order differential equation
as I indicate here so the derivative the output plus eight times the output is
equal to the input
and now we can use the differentiation property
if we for EA transform mystic entire expression
the differentiation property tells us that
the forty a transformer the derivative of the output
is the for a transformer the output multiplied by J Omega
and Lenny arity well let us
right the Fourier transform love this as eight times while Omega
and since these are added together and since we have the linear
linearity property these are added together
and XOM Omega is and the Fourier transform affect safety
so what we've used is the differentiation property
and reviews the when the arity property
right now weekend solve this equation
for y Omega the forty a transformer the output
in terms of Xserve Omega the Fourier transform
the input and a simple algebraic step
gets s to this expression so the for a chance for the output is one over
Jamaica plus a
ties the forty a transformer the input and I just simply repeated
that equation appear
now so far this is algebra
and and question is now how do we interpret this
well we know that the for a transformer the output
is the forty a transformer the input times the Fourier transform
are the impulse response to the system namely the frequency response
so in fact if we think love
a chip tanh Omega as a Fourier transform pair
then is the convolution property that lets us
quaid this term with
H Omega so here
were using the convolution property
and so we know what the 48 transform
or the impulse responses they only one over
J Omega plus a now
in we may have for example what is in our problem
instead of getting the frequency response to get the impulse response
and there are a variety of ways that we can't do this we can attempt to go
through the inverse Fourier transform expression
but in fact one of the most useful ways is their formally called
the inspection method informally
its called if you work that out going one way
then you ought to remember the answer so that you know how to get back
method so what that says is
remember dead we worked an example and in fact I showed you the example
earlier in the lecture that
the Fourier transform a view to the minus eighty times a step
is one over J Omega plus a
so what is the inverse Fourier transform a 1-over J Omega plus a
well ants need to the minus eighty
times unit step
and that's just simply remembering in essence this particular transformed pier
well I've drawn graphically
the magnitude of the Fourier transform here
and below it we have the impulse response
the apostle spines is as I just indicated either -80
times you see now let's go back up and look at
the magnitude over the frequency response
and given just a little bit of discussion that we had
previously about filtering you should be able to
in for something about the filtering characteristics
love this simple first-order differential equation
in particular if you look at that frequency response
the frequency response falls off with frequency and so it tends to do
is attenuate high frequencies and
retain low frequencies so in fact
you could think of the defocus saying that we did on
the imager for EA you could think if that approximately as
similar to the kind of filtering action that you would get
by passing a signal through a first-order differential equation
okay now just illustrate in one
additional step in both evaluating inverse transforms and using Fourier
transform properties
to solve a near constant coefficient differential equations
let's take this same example and rather
then finding the impulse response let's find the response
to another exponential input
now we could of course do that using the convolution integral we just got the
impulse response so we can put that
through the convolution integral to get the response to this input
but let's do it instead by going back to the differential equation
and so here i'm taking a differential equation
all choose just to have some numbers to work with
a equal to 2 and now
I'll choose an exponential on the right hand side either minus tee times you
have t
and again we for EA transform the equation
and we can remember
this particular Fourier transform pair it's just the one who worked out
previously now with a equal to 1 clearly we're getting a lot of mileage out of
that example
and now if we wanted determine what the output why if he is
we can't do that by solving for Y Omega
and then generating the inverse Fourier transform
well what's all this algebraically for y Omega
and and that gets us to this expression
and this is not a Fourier transform that we've worked out before
and this is have the second part to the
inspection procedure what we have is a forty a transform which is a product
of two turns each of which we can recognize
and what we can consider doing is expanding that out
in a partial fraction expansion namely as a summer turns
because the lady arity property associated with the 48 transform
the inverse transform is then the song the inverse transform movie to those
terms
okay so if we expand this out in a partial fraction expansion
and you can just verify that
if you add these two together you get back to where we started
we now have the sum of two terms
and if we now recognized by inspection
the inverse Fourier transform love this we see that it simply
minus either -2 TV times the unit step
this one is plus either the minus the times a unit step
and so in fact it's the summer these two terms
which are the inverse transforms up the
individual turns in a partial fraction expansion
that then give us the for EA transform
all y ft
her I'm sorry for her rather the output
so this is a gypsy that this is why if the
which is the summer these two exponentials and this
is the inverse Fourier transform
love y Omega as we calculated it previously
okay well hopefully you're beginning to get some sense now
love how powerful and also beautiful
the 48 transform is we've seen already that
a glimpse or how it plays a role in
filtering modulation how its properties helpless with linear constant
coefficient differential equations et cetera
what we will do
beginning with the next lecture is develop
a similar set of tools for the discrete-time case and there are
some very strong similarities to what we've done a continuous-time also some
very important differences
and then after we have the continuous-time and discrete-time
Fourier transforms
will then see how the concepts
involved in the properties involved leads to
very important powerful notions love filtering
modulation sampling and other
signal processing ideas thank you